• Are any Physicians accepting patients? 

When Physicians are able to accommodate new patients, this will be 
published on the website under Physicians page. 

• Can I get my results mailed to me or released over the phone? 

Depending on your Physician, some results may be released by mail or over 
the phone, or you may be asked to make another appointment with your 
Physician to review your result. Please clarify this with your Physician if you 
are expecting to be contacted about a speciﬁc test result. 

• Can I phone directly to make an appointment? 

You can phone our main line at 204-727-6451 and press option “3” to speak to 
a Receptionist to make your appointment. Please understand that phones are 
very busy and your time on hold will vary depending on call volumes at any 
given time. For a more convenient method please use our Online Booking 
option available on our website. It is very user-friendly and will provide you 
with conﬁrmation of your appointment. 

• What happens if I miss an appointment? 

Please understand that missed appointments are time that a Physician could 
utilize to see other sick patients. If at all possible, please call 24 hours in 
advance to cancel your appointment if you know you are unable to attend. If 
you discover you are unable to attend an appointment due to unforeseen 
circumstances, a call up to two hours prior to the appointment is still 
appreciated. Please be aware that it is at the Physician’s discretion to charge 
for missed appointments. 

• What happens if I cannot keep an appointment? 

If you cannot keep your appointment – please contact the clinic in order to 
cancel your booked appointment and reschedule another appointment. 

• What happens if I am late for my appointment? 

If you are late for your booked appointment, it is at the Physician’s discretion 
as to whether they feel they can still accommodate your appointment. 

• Can I get a prescription renewal on Walk-in? 

Depending on the type of prescription being renewed, the Physician on Walk-
in may or may not be able to renew your prescription short term or long term. 
Please be aware that renewals for narcotics will NOT be completed at Walk-In. 
You must make an appointment with your own Family Physician. 

• What if I do not have valid medical coverage? 

There will be a charge for all patients who do not have valid medical 
coverage in Canada. 

• Why do I have to show my Health card at every visit? 

It is imperative to ensure that our records reﬂect the same information that is 
on record with Manitoba Health. This is especially important if we need to 
contact you, or if you are referred for diagnostic testing or to a Specialist and 
they cannot contact you due to incorrect/outdated information. While we 
understand that some patients may ﬁnd this frustrating, it is for your beneﬁt in 
ensuring that your health information is correct and current. 

• What if I live in another province or country and need medical 

care? 
For patients from another province, we must be able to verify your coverage 
prior to your visit. 

• Do you give phone advice? 

To ensure that your health concerns are addressed in a conﬁdential manner 
with clarity we ask that you make an appointment to see your Physician and/
or attend our Walk-in clinic. 

• Do I need to book an appointment to see a doctor? 

In order to see your Family Physician, you must book an appointment with 
them by utilizing our Online Booking option, by phone, or in person. If you do 
not have a Family Physician at Western Medical Clinic and/or they are 
unavailable, please attend our Walk-In clinic that operates Monday through 
Friday between 8:00 am to 6:00 pm. 

• Why is it important to ensure that I keep my appointment with my 

Physician? 
Our Physicians work very hard to be available to see you as their patient. 
Please remember that if you do not keep your appointment and do not call to 
cancel/reschedule, that appointment time becomes unavailable for another 
sick patient that could have been accommodated. 

• Can I eat and/or drink prior to having my blood drawn at the Lab? 

If your lab tests are identiﬁed as “Fasting”, please do not eat or drink for 12 
hours prior to having your blood drawn at the Lab. 

• Can I post/send a message on Western Medical Clinic Facebook 

page and expect an answer? 
Please be aware that for conﬁdentiality purposes, we are unable to answer 
questions/messages that appear on our Facebook page. 

• How do I edit information on my Medeo Online booking account? 
If you have questions regarding your Medeo Online booking account, please 
contact the clinic by email at westmed@westernmedicalclinic.ca. 

